---
title: Iron Maiden
tags: [carpentry]
---
The next day, in searching the woods, I found a tree of that
wood, or like it, which in the Brazils they call the iron-tree, for its
exceeding hardness.  Of this, with great labour, and almost spoiling my
axe, I cut a piece, and brought it home, too, with difficulty enough, for
it was exceeding heavy.  The excessive hardness of the wood, and my
having no other way, made me a long while upon this machine, for I worked
it effectually by little and little into the form of a shovel or spade;
the handle exactly shaped like ours in England, only that the board part
having no iron shod upon it at bottom, it would not last me so long;
however, it served well enough for the uses which I had occasion to put
it to; but never was a shovel, I believe, made after that fashion, or so
long in making.

I was still deficient, for I wanted a basket or a wheelbarrow.  A basket
I could not make by any means, having no such things as twigs that would
bend to make wicker-ware—at least, none yet found out; and as to a
wheelbarrow, I fancied I could make all but the wheel; but that I had no
notion of; neither did I know how to go about it; besides, I had no
possible way to make the iron gudgeons for the spindle or axis of the
wheel to run in; so I gave it over, and so, for carrying away the earth
which I dug out of the cave, I made me a thing like a hod which the
labourers carry mortar in when they serve the bricklayers.  This was not
so difficult to me as the making the shovel: and yet this and the shovel,
and the attempt which I made in vain to make a wheelbarrow, took me up no
less than four days—I mean always excepting my morning walk with my gun,
which I seldom failed, and very seldom failed also bringing home
something fit to eat.